It's really great to see all of you.
What I want to do today since this is
build as startup school is share with
you some lessons I've learned about
building startups at AI fund. AI funds a
venture studio and we build an average
of about one startup per month. And
because we co-founded startups, we're in
there writing code, talking about
customers, design on features, detering
pricing. And so we've done a lot of reps
of not just watching others build
startups, but actually being in the
weeds, building startups with
entrepreneurs. And what I want to do
today is um share with you some of the
lessons I've learned building startups,
especially around this changing AI
technology and what it enables. And
it'll be focused on the theme of speed.
So it turns out that for those of you
that want to build a startup, I think a
strong predictor for startup's odds of
success is execution speed. And I
actually have a lot of respect for the
entrepreneurs and executives that can
just do things really quickly and new AI
technology is enabling startups to go
much faster. So what I hope to do is
share with you some of those best
practices which are frankly changing
every two to three months still to let
you get that speed that hopefully lets
you have a higher odds of success.
Before diving to speed, you know, a lot
of people ask me, hey Andrew, where are
the opportunities for startup? So this
is what I think of as the AI stack where
at the lowest level are the
semiconductor companies then the clouds
are hyperscalers built on top of that. A
lot of the AI foundation model companies
built on top of that. And even though a
lot of the PR excitement and hype has
been on these uh technology layers, it
turns out that almost by definition, the
biggest opportunities have to be at the
application layer because we actually
need the applications to generate even
more revenue so that they can afford to
pay the foundation cloud and
semiconductor technology layers. So for
whatever reason media and social media
tends not to talk about the application
layer as much but for those of you think
you're building startups almost by
definition the biggest opportunities
have to be there although of course the
opportunities at all layers of the
stack. One of the things that's changed
a lot over the last year um and in terms
of AI tech trends I if you ask me what's
the most important tech trend in AI I
would say is the rise of agentic AI and
about a year and a half ago when I
started to go around and give talks to
try to convince people that AI agents
might be a thing I did not realize that
around last summer a bunch of marketers
would get a hold of this term and use it
as a sticker and slap it on everything
in site which made it almost lose some
of meaning but I want to share with you
from a technical perspective why I think
agentic AI is exciting and important and
also opens up a lot more startup
opportunities. So, it turns out that the
way a lot of us use LMS is to prompt it
to have it gener output. And the way we
have an LM output something is as if
you're going to a human or in this case
an AI and asking it to please type out
an essay for you by writing from the
first word to the last word all in one
go without ever using backspace. And
humans, we don't do our best writing,
being forced to type in this linear
order. And it turns out neither does AI.
But despite the difficulty of being
forced to write in this linear way, um
our LMS do surprisingly well. With
agentic workflows, we can go to AI
system and ask it to please first write
an essay outline, then do some webs
research if it needs to and fetch uh
some web pages to put in their own
context, then write a first draft, then
read the first draft and critique it and
revise it and so on. And so we end up
with this iterative workflow where your
model does some thinking and some
research does some revision goes back to
do more thinking and by going around
this loop many times. Uh it is slower
but it delivers a much better work
product. So for a lot of t lot of
projects AI fund has worked on
everything from um pulling out complex
compliance documents to uh medical
diagnosis to reasoning about complex
legal documents. We found that these
agentic workflows are really a huge
difference between it working versus not
working. But a lot of the work that
needs to be done, a lot of the valuable
businesses to be built still will be
taking workflows existing or new
workflows and figuring out how to
implement them into these size of
agentic workflows. So just to update the
picture for the AI stack, um what has
emerged over the last year is a new
agentic orchestration layer that helps
application builders orchestrate or
coordinate a lot of calls to the
technology layers underneath. And the
good news is uh the orchestration layer
has made it even easier to build
applications. But I think the basic
conclusion that the application layer
has to be the most valuable layer of the
stack still holds true with a bias or
focus on the application layer. Let me
now dive into some of the best practices
I've learned for how startups can move
faster.
It turns out that um at AI fun we only
focus on working on concrete ideas. So
to me a concrete idea a concrete product
idea is one that's specified in enough
detail that an engineer can go and build
it. So for example if you say let's use
AI to optimize healthcare assets you
know that's actually not a concrete
idea. It's too vague. If you tell me
it's a very software to use AI to
optimize healthcare assets different
engineers would do totally different
things and because it's not concrete you
can't build it quickly and you don't
have speed. In contrast, if you had a
concrete idea like let's write software
to let hospitals, let patients book MR
machine slots online to optimize usage.
I don't know if this is a good or a bad
concrete idea. Actually business is
already, you know, doing this. But it is
concrete and that means engineers can
build it quickly. If it's a good idea,
you find out it's not a good idea, you
will find out. But having concrete ideas
buys you speed. Or someone to say, let's
use AI for email personal productivity.
Too many interpretations of that. That's
not concrete. But if someone says could
you build an app Gmail integrate the
automation that use let's use the right
prom source right filter entire emails
that is concrete I could you know I
could go build that this afternoon. So
concretness buys you speed and the
deceptive thing for a lot of
entrepreneurs is the vague ideas tend to
get a lot of kudos. If you go and tell
all your friends we should use AI to
optimize the use of healthcare assets.
Everyone will say that's a great idea.
But it's actually not a great idea at
least in the sense of being something
you can build. Uh it turns out when
you're vague, you're almost always
right. Uh but when you're concrete, you
may be right or wrong. Either way is
fine. We can discover that much more
fast, which is what's important for SA.
In terms of executing on concrete ideas,
I I I find that at AI fun, I ask my team
to focus on concrete ideas because um a
concrete idea gives clear direction and
the team can run really fast to build it
and either validate it, prove it out or
falsify and conclude it doesn't work.
Either way is fine. So we can do that
quickly and it turns out that finding
good concrete ideas usually requires
someone could be you could be a subject
matter expert thinking about a problem
for a long time. Uh so for example
actually before before you know starting
Corsera um I spent years right thinking
about online education talking to users
holding my own intuitions about what
would make a good edtech platform and
then after that long process I think YC
sometimes calls it wondering the idea
maze but after thinking about it for a
long time you find that the guts of
people that have thought about this for
a long time can be very good about
rapidly making decisions as in after
you've thought about this talked to
customers and so on for a long time if
you ask this expert, should I build this
feature or that feature? You know, the
gut, which is an instantaneous decision,
uh, can be actually a surprisingly good
proxy. It can be surprisingly good
mechanism for making decisions. And I
know I work on AI, you might think I'll
say, oh, we need data. And of course, I
love data, but it turns out getting data
for a lot of startups is actually slow
mechanism for making decisions. And a
subject matter expert with a good gut is
often a much better mechanism for making
a speedy decision. And then one other
thing for many successful startups at
any moment in time you're pursuing one
very clear hypothesis they building out
and trying to sell China value of
hotspot. Um and a startup doesn't have
resources to hedge and try 10 things at
the same time. So pick one go for it and
if data tells you to lose faith in that
idea that's actually totally fine. Just
pivot on a dime to pursue a totally
different concrete idea. So that's what
often feels like an AI fund. We're
pursuing one thing doggedly with
determination until the world tells us
we were wrong then change and pursue a
totally different thing with equal
determination and equal doggedness. And
one other pattern I've seen, if every
piece of new data causes you to pivot,
it probably means you're starting off
from two weaker a base of knowledge,
right? If every time you talk to a
customer, you totally change your mind,
probably means you don't know enough
about that sector yet to have a really
high quality concrete idea and uh
finding someone that's thought about a
subject for longer may get you on to
better path in order to go faster. The
other thing I often think about is the
built feedback loop which is rapidly
changing when it comes to how we build
with AI coding assistance. So when
you're building a lot of applications,
one of the biggest risks is custom
acceptance, right? A lot of startups
struggle not because we can't build
whatever we want to build, but because
we build something and it turns out
nobody cares. And so for a lot of the
way uh you know I build startups
especially applications less so deep
tech less so technology startups but
definitely application startups is we
often build software so this is an
engineuring toss and then we will get
feedback from users and this is a
product management toss and then we'll
go back you know then based on the user
feedback we'll tweak our views on what
to build go back to write more software
and we go around this loop many many
times iterate toward product market fit
and it turns out that with AI coding
assistance which Andre talked about as
well um rapid engineering is becoming
possible in a way that just was not
posing much more feasible. So the speed
of engineing is going up rapidly and the
cost of engineing is also going down
rapidly. This changes the mechanisms by
which we drive startups around this
loop. When I think about the software
that I do, I maybe put into two major
buckets. Sometimes I'll build quick and
dirty prototypes to test an idea. You
say build a new customer service
chatbot. Let's build AI to process legal
documents whatever build a quick and
dirty prototype to see if we think it
works. The other type of software where
I do is write maintain production
software maintain legacy software but
these massive production ready code
bases depending on which analysts report
you trust. It's been hard to find very
rigorous data on this. You know when
writing production quality code maybe
we're 30 to 50% faster with AI systems.
Hard to find a rigorous number. maybe
he's plausible to be but in terms of
building quick and dirty prototypes
we're not 50% faster I think we're
easily 10 times faster maybe much more
than 10 times faster and there are a few
reasons for this uh when you're building
standalone prototypes there's less
integration with legacy software
infrastructure legacy data needed um
also the requirements reliability even
scalability even security are much lower
and I know I'm not supposed to tell
people to write insecure code right
feels like the wrong thing to say, but I
routinely go to my team and say, "Go
ahead, write insecure code." Because if
this software is only going to run on
your laptop and you don't plan to
maliciously hack your own laptop, it's
fine to have insecure code, right? But
of course, after it seems to be working,
please do make it secure before you ship
it to someone else. And you know, like a
leaking PI, leaking sense data that that
is, you know, very damaging. So before
you ship it, make it secure and
scalable, but they're just testing it.
It's fine. And so I find increasingly
startups will systematically pursue
innovations by building 20 prototypes to
see what works, right? Uh because I I I
know that there's some angst in AI. A
lot of proof of concepts don't make to
production. But I think by driving the
cost of a proof of concept low enough,
it's actually fine if lots of proof of
concepts don't see the light of day. And
I know that um the mantra move fast and
break things got a bad rep because you
know it broke things. And some teams
took away from this that you should not
move fast, but I think that's a mistake.
I tend to tell my teams to move fast and
be responsible. And I think they
actually lots of ways to move really
quickly while still being responsible.
And in terms of the AI assistance uh
coding landscape, I think was it three
four years ago code autocomplete right
popularized by GitHub copilot and then
there was a cursor windserve generation
of AI enabled ids which great use winds
and cursor quite a lot um and then
starting I don't know six seven months
ago uh there started to be this new
generation of highly agentic coding
assistants uh including that she's using
o3 a lot for coding um cloud code is
fant Fantastic. Since quad 4 release,
it's become and and ask me again in a
few months, I may use something
different. But the tools are evolving
really rapidly, but I think uh cloud
codeex this is a new generation of
highly agentic coding assistance that is
making developer productivity keep on
growing. And the interesting thing is if
you're even half a generation or one
generation behind actually makes a big
difference compared to if you're on top
of the latest tools and I find my team
is taking really different approaches to
software engineing now compared to even
three or six months ago. One surprising
thing is we we're used to thinking of
code as this really valuable artifact
because it's so hard to create but
because the cost of software engine is
going down code is much less of a
valuable artifact as it used to. So I'm
on teams where you know we've completely
rebuilt a codebase three times the last
month right because it's not that hard
anymore to just completely rebuild a
codebase pick a new data schema is fine
because the cost of doing that has
plummeted some of you may have heard of
Jeff Bezos's terminology of a two-way
door versus a one-way door. A two-way
door is decision that you can make. If
you change your mind, come back out, you
know, reverse it relatively cheaply.
Whereas a one-way door is you make a
decision and you change your mind is
very costly or very difficult to
reverse. So choosing the software
architecture of your tech stack used to
be a one-way door. Once you built on top
of a certain tech stack, you set a
database schema, really hard to change
it. So that used to be a one-way door. I
don't want to say it's totally a two-way
door, but I find that um my team will
more often build on a certain tech stack
a week later, change your mind, let's
throw the code base away and redo it
from scratch on a new tech stack. I I
don't want to overhype it. We don't do
that all the time. There are still costs
to redoing that. But I find my team is
often rethinking what is a one-way door
and what's now a two-way door because
the cost of software engineering is so
much lower now. And maybe going a little
bit beyond software engineering, I I I
feel like this actually a good time to
empower everyone to build of AI. Uh over
the last year, a bunch of people advised
others not to learn to code on the
grounds of AI were automated. I think
we'll look back on this as some of the
worst career advice ever given because
as better tools make software engineing
easier, more people should do it, not
fewer. So when many decades ago the
world moved from punch calls to keyboard
and terminal that made coding easier.
When we moved from assemblies high level
languages like cobalt um there actually
people arguing back then that now we
have cobalt we don't need programmers
anymore like people actually wrote
papers to that effect but of course that
was wrong and programming languages made
it easier to code and more people learn
to code text IDs ID is the AI coding
assistant um and as coding becomes
easier more people should learn to code.
I have a controversial opinion which is
uh I think actually it's time for
everyone of every job role to learn to
code and in fact on my team you know my
CFO my head of talent my recruiters my
front desk uh uh person all of them know
how to code and I actually see all of
them performing better at all of their
job functions because they can code and
I think um I'm probably a little bit
ahead of the curve probably most
businesses are not there yet but in the
future I think we empower everyone to
code a lot of people can be more
productive I want to share with you One
lesson I learned as well on on why we
should have people learn to do this
which is um when I was teaching
generative VI for everyone on Corsera,
we needed to generate background art
like this uh using midjourney and you
know one of my team members uh new art
history and so he could prompt
midjourney with the genre the palette
the artistic inspiration had a very good
control over the images he generated. So
we end up using all of Tommy's generated
images. Whereas in contrast, I don't
know art history. And so when I prompt,
you know, image generation, I could
write, please make pretty pictures of
robots for me, right? And and I could
never have the control that my
collaborators could. And so I couldn't
generate as good images as he could. And
I think with computers, one of the most
important skills of the future is the
ability to tell a computer exactly what
you want. So they'll do it for you. And
will be people that have that deeper
understanding of computers that will be
able to command a computer to get the
outcome you want. And learning to code,
not not that you need to write the code
yourself. Steer AI to code for you seems
like it will remain the best way to do
that for a long time. with software
engineering becoming much faster. The
other interesting dynamic I'm seeing is
that the product management work getting
user feedback deciding what features to
build that is increasingly the
bottleneck and so I'm seeing very
interesting dynamics in multiple teams
over the last year a lot more of my
teams have started to complain that
their bottlenecks on product engineering
and design because the engineers have
gotten so much faster some interesting
trends I'm seeing three four five years
ago Silicon Valley used to have these
slightly suspicious rules of thumb but
nonetheless rules of thumb will have 100
p.m. to four engineers or 1 PM to seven
engineers was this like PM product
manager to engineering ratio right which
should take with a grain of salt but it
was typical of a 1 PM to six seven
engineers and with engineers becoming
much faster I don't see product
management work designing what to build
becoming faster at the same speed
engineers I'm seeing this ratio shift so
literally yesterday one of my teams came
to me and for the first time when we're
planning headcom for a project this team
proposed to me not at 1:00 PM to four
engineers but to have 1 PM to 0.5
engineers. So the team actually proposed
to me I still know no this is a good
idea for the first time in my life that
I saw you know managers proposed to me
having twice as many PMs as engineers
was a very interesting dynamic. I I
still don't know if this proposal I
heard yes is a good idea but I think
it's a sign of where the world is going
and I find as PMs that can code or
engineers with some product instincts
often end up doing better. The other
thing that I found important for startup
found for startup leaders is because
engineing is going so fast. If you have
good tactics for getting rapid feedback
to shape your perspective what to build
faster that helps you get faster as
well. So um I'm going to go through a
portfolio of tactics for you know
getting product feedback to keep shaping
what you will decide to build. And we're
going to go through a list of the faster
maybe less accurate the slower more
accurate tactics. So the fastest tactic
for getting feedback is look at the
product yourself and just go by your
gut. And if you're a subject matter
expert, this is actually surprisingly
good you if you know what you're doing.
A little bit slower is go ask three
friends or teammates to get feedback to
play with your product and get feedback.
Um little bit slower is ask three to 10
strangers you know for feedback. Um, it
turns out for when I built products, one
of the most important skills I think I
learned was how to sit in the coffee
shop, how to sit in a when it's
traveling, when I travel, I often sit in
the hotel lobby. It turns out learn to
spot places of high foot traffic and
very respectfully, you know, grab
strangers and ask them for feedback on
whatever I'm building. This used to be
easier when I was less known. When when
people recognize you, it's a little bit
more awkward. I found that um I've
actually sat with teams the hotel lobby
very high foot for traffic and you know
very respectfully ask strangers hey
we're building this thing do you mind
taking a look oh and I actually learned
in a coffee shop there a lot of people
working a lot of people don't want to be
working so we give them excuse to be
distracted they're very happy to do that
too but I've actually kind of made tons
of product decisions in a hotel lobby or
a coffee shop with collaborators just
just just like that send prototypes to
100 testers you if you have access to
logic group of users and prototype to
more users and these are these get to be
slow and slower tactics and I know
Silicon Valley you know we like to talk
about AB testing of course I do a ton of
AB testing but contrary to what many
people think AB testing is now one of
the slowest tactics in my menu because
it's just slow to ship it yeah it depend
on how many users you have right so and
then uh the other thing is um as you use
anything but the first tactic some teams
will look at the data they make a
decision but the missing piece is When I
AB test something, um, I don't just use
result of AB test to pick product A or
product B. My team will often sit down
and look carefully at the data to hone
our instincts to speed up to improve the
rate. I wish we're able to use the first
tactic to make high quality decision.
Often sit down and think, gee, I
thought, you know, this product name
will work better than her product name.
Clearly, my mental model the users
wrong. to really sit down and think to
update our mental model using all of
that data to improve the quality of our
guts on how to make product decisions
faster. That turns out to be really
important. All right, so talked about um
concrete ideas, speed up engineering,
speed up product feedback. This is one
last thing I want to touch on which is
I've seen that understanding AI actually
makes you go faster. Um and and here's
why. As a AI person, maybe I'm biased to
be pro AI, but I want to share you why.
So it turns out that when it comes to
mature technology like mobile, you know,
many people have had smartphones for a
long time. We kind of know what a mobile
app can do, right? So many people
including nontechnical people have good
instincts about what a mobile app can
do. If you look at mature job roles like
sales, marketing, HR, legal, they're all
really important and all really
difficult. But you know, there are
enough marketers that that have done
marketing for long enough and the
marketing tactics haven't changed that
much in the last year. So there are a
lot of people that are really good in
marketing and it's really important
really hard but that knowledge is
relatively diffused because you know the
knowledge of how to do HR like it hasn't
changed dramatically you know in the
last six months but AI is emerging
technology and so the knowledge of how
to do AI really well is not widespread
and so teams that actually get it that
understand AI do have a advantage over
teams that don't whereas if you need if
you have an HR problem you can find
someone you know that knows how to do it
well probably but If an AI problem,
knowing how to actually do that could
put you ahead of other companies. So
things like what accuracy can you get
for a customer service chatbot? You
know, should you prom fine tune a
workflow? Um how do you get a voice out
to low latency? There a lot of these
decisions that if you make the right
technical decision, you can like solve
the problem in a couple days. They make
the wrong technical decision, you could
chase a blind alley for three months,
right? And and one one thing I've been
surprised by, it turns out if you have,
you know, two possible architecture
decisions, it's one bit of information.
It feels like if you don't know the
right answer, at most you're twice as
slow, right? One bit, you know, try
both. It feels like one bit of
information can at most buy you a 2x
speed up. And I think in some
theoretical sense that is true. But what
I see in practice, if you flip the wrong
bit, you're not twice as slow. You spend
like 10 times longer chasing a blind
alley. which is why I think going in to
have this right technical judgment, it
really makes startups go so much faster.
The other reason why I find staying on
top of AI really helpful for startups is
um over the last two years we have just
had a ton of wonderful genai tools or
genai building blocks right partial list
but prompting workflows evals guardrails
rack voice act async programming lots of
ETL embeddings fine-tuning graph DB how
to integ
models there's a long and wonderful list
of building blocks that can quickly
combine to build software that no one on
the planet could have built, you know,
even a year ago. And this creates a lot
of new opportunities for starters to
build new things. So when I learned
about these building blocks, this is
actually a picture that I have in mind.
If you own one building block, like you
have a basic white building block, yeah,
you can build some cool stuff. Maybe you
know how to prompt. So you have one
building block, you build some amazing
stuff. But if you get a second building
block like you also know how to build
chat bots. So you have a white Lego
brick and a black Lego brick, you can
build something more interesting. Um if
you acquire a blue building brick as
well, you can build something even more
interesting. Get few red building bras,
maybe a little yellow one, more
interesting, get more building bras, get
more building bras, and very rapidly the
number of things you comb combine them
to into grows kind of combinatorily or
grows exponentially. And so knowing all
these wonderful building blocks lets you
combine them in much richer combination.
One of the things that deep learn does
so I actually take a lot of deep learn
courses myself you know to because work
with great we work with I think like
pretty much all the leading AI companies
in the world and cert and and um and uh
try to hand out building blocks. Um but
when I look at the deep learning course
catalog this is actually what I see. And
whenever I take these courses to learn
these building blocks, I feel like I'm
getting new things that can combine to
form kind of combinatorally or
exponentially more software applications
that were not possible just one or two
years ago. So just to wrap up, this is
my last slide. I then want to take
questions if if y'all have any. I find
that there are many things that matter
for startup, not just speed. But when I
look at the startups that AI fund is
building, I find that the management
team's ability to execute at speed is
highly correlated with its odds of
success. And some things we've learned
to get you speed is, you know, work on
concrete ideas. Um uh it's got to be
good concrete ideas. I find that as a as
executive, I'm judged on the speed and
quality of my decisions. Both do matter,
but speed absolutely matters. rapid
entrying with AI coding assistance makes
you go much faster but that shifts the
bottleneck to getting user feedback on
the product decisions and so having a
portfolio of tactics to go get rapid
feedback and if you haven't learned to
go to coffee shop and talk to strangers
it it's not easy but then just just be
respectful right just be respectful of
people that's actually very valuable
skill for entrepreneurs to have I think
and I think also um staying on top of
the technology buys you speed all right
with that let me thank Thank you very
much.
[Applause]
Happy questions.
As AI advances, do you think it's more
important for humans to develop the
tools or learn how to use the tools
better? Like how can we p position
ourselves to remain essential in a world
where you know intelligence is becoming
democratized? I feel like AGI has been
overhyped and so for a long time
there'll be a lot of things that humans
can do that AI cannot and I think in the
future the people that are most powerful
are the people that can make computers
do exactly what you want it to do and so
I think staying on top of the tools some
of us will build tools sometimes but
there were a lot of other tools others
will build that we can just use but so
people that know how to use AI to get
computers to do what you want it to do
will be much more powerful, not worry
about people running out of things to
do, but um people that can use AI will
be much more powerful than people that
don't.
Hey, so well first of all uh thank you
so much. I have a huge respect for you
and I think that you are true
inspiration for a lot of us. My question
is about uh the future of compute. So as
we move towards uh more powerful more
powerful AI, where do you think that
comput is heading? I mean we see people
saying let's ship GPUs to space. Some
people talking about nuclear power data
centers. What do you think about it?
There's something I'm debating what I
wanted to say in response to the last
question about kind of AGI about maybe
I'll answer this and a little bit the
last question. So it turns out there's
one framework you can use for deciding
what's hype and what's not hype. I think
over the last two years there's been a
handful of companies that um hyped up
certain things for promotional PR
fundraising influence purposes. And
because AI was so new, um, handful of
companies got away with saying almost
anything without anyone fact-checking
them because the technology was not
understood. So, one of my mental filters
is there's certain hype narratives that
make these businesses look more powerful
that's been amplified. Um, and so, for
example, this idea that um, AI is so
powerful, we might accidentally lead to
human extinction. That's just
ridiculous. But it is a hype narrative
that made certain businesses look more
powerful and it got you know ramped up
and actually helped certain businesses
fundraising goals. AI is so powerful
soon no one will even have a job
anymore. Just not true, right? But again
that made these businesses look more
powerful got hyped up or we are so
powerful so when the hype narrative
we're so powerful that by training a new
model we will casually wipe out
thousands of startups. That's just not
true. Yes, Jasper ran into trouble.
Small number of companies got wiped out.
But it's not that easy to casually wipe
out thousands of startups. AI needs so
much electricity. Only nuclear power is
good enough for that. You know, that
wind solar stuff not that's just not
true. So, I think a lot of this um GPUs
in space, you know, I don't know. It's
like um go for it. I think we have a lot
of room to run still for terrestrial
GPUs. Uh yeah, but but I think uh uh
some of these hype narratives are have
been amplified that that I think uh are
a distortion of what what actually will
be done.
There's a lot of hype in um AI and how
and nobody's really certain about how
we're going to be building the future
with it. But what are some of the most
dangerous biases or overhyped narratives
that you've seen people talk about or
get uh poisoned by that they end up
running with that we should try to avoid
or be more aware of and allow us to have
a more realistic view as we are building
this future.
So I think the dangerous AI narrative
has been overhyped. Uh AI is a fantastic
tool, but like any other powerful tool
like electricity, lots of ways to use it
for beneficial purposes. Also some ways
to use it in harmful ways. I find myself
not using the term AI safety that much.
Um not because I think we we should
build dangerous things, but because I
think safety is not a function of
technology, it's a function of how we
apply it. So like electric motor you
know you can't the maker of electric
motor can't guarantee that no one will
ever use it from unsafe downstream toss
like use electric motor can be used to
build a Dallas machine electric vehicle
can be used to build a smart bomb but
the electric motor manufacturer can't
control how be used downstream. So
safety is not a function of the electric
motor as a function of how you apply it
and I think the same thing for AI. AI is
neither safe nor unsafe. It is how you
apply it that makes it safe or unsafe.
So instead of thinking about AI safety,
I often think about responsible AI
because it is how we use it responsibly
hopefully or irresponsibly that
determines whether or not what we build
with AI technology ends up being harmful
or beneficial. And I feel like sometimes
that the really weird corner cases that
get hyped up in the news. I think just
one or two days ago there was a Wall
Street Journal article about AI losing
control of AI or something. And I feel
like that article took uh corner case
experiments run in a lab and you know
sensationalized it in a way that I think
was really disproportionate relative to
the lab experiment that was being run
and unfortunately technology is hard
enough to understand that many people
don't know better and so these hype
narratives do keep on getting amplified
um and I feel like this has been used as
a weapon against open source software as
well right which is really unfortunate.
Thank you for your work. I think your
impact is remarkable. Uh my question is
um as aspiring founders, how should we
be thinking about business in the world
where anything can be disrupted in a
day? Whatever great mode, product or
feature you have can be replicated with
VIP code and competitors in basically
hours.
It turns out when you start a business,
there are a lot of things to worry
about. The number thing I worry about is
uh are you building a product that users
love? Um it turns out that when you
build a business there are lots of
things to think about the go to market
channel competitors technology mode all
that is important but if I were to have
a singular focus on one thing it is are
you building a product that users really
want until you solve that you know is
very difficult to build a valuable
business. After you solve that the other
questions do come to play. Uh, do you
have a channel to get to customers? What
is pricing long-term? What is your moat?
I find that moes tend to be overhyped.
Actually, I find that more businesses
tend to start off with a product and
then evolve eventually into a moat. But
consumer products rand is somewhat more
defensible. Um, and if you have a lot of
momentum, it becomes harder to catch
you. But enterprise products sometimes
if you have a uh maybe mo is more of a
consideration if they're channels that
are hard to get into enterprises. So I
think um sorry when when AI fund looks
at businesses we actually wind up doing
a fairly complex analysis of these
factors and writing a you know two to
six page narrative memo to analyze it
before we decide whether or not to
proceed it or not. And and I think um uh
all of these things are important, but I
feel like at this moment in time, the
number of opportunities, meaning the
amount of stuff that is possible that no
one's built yet in the world, seems much
greater than the number of people with
the skill to build them. So definitely
at the application layer, it feels like
there's a lot of white space for new
things you can build that no one else
seems to be working on. And I would say,
you know, focus on building a product
that people want, that people love. Um,
and then figure out the rest of it along
the way. Although this important figure
along the way.
Uh, hi professor. Uh, thanks for your
wonderful speech. Uh, I am a
Andagramress researcher from Stanford
and I think your uh, metaphor in your
speech is very interesting. You said the
uh, current AI tools are like bricks and
are be uh, and can be built upon
accumulation. However, so far it is
difficult to see the accumulative
functional expansion of the uh
integration of AI tools because they
often align on the stacking of functions
based on uh intent distribution and are
accompanied by dynamic problems of
tokens and time overhead. So um which is
uh which is different from static
engineering. So what do you think will
be the perspective of a possible agent 2
accumulation effect in the future? But
hey just just some quick remarks to that
right you mentioned agent uh OM token
cost my most common advice to developers
is to first approximation just don't
worry about how much tokens cost only a
small number of startups are lucky
enough to have users use so much of your
product that the cost of tokens becomes
a problem it can become a problem I've
definitely been on a bunch of teams
where the cost you know users like our
product and we started to look at our
right geni uh uh bills and it was
definitely climbing in a way that really
became a problem. But it's actually
really difficult to get to a point where
your token usage costs are a problem.
And for the teams I'm on where we were
lucky enough that users made our token
cause a problem, we often had engine
solutions to then bend the cursor and
bring it back down through prompting
fine-tuning USDs by optimize or
whatever. And then what I'm seeing is
that I'm seeing a lot of agentic
workflows that actually integrate a lot
of different steps. So for example, if
you build a customer service chatbot,
we'll often have to use prompting, maybe
optimize some of the results in DSPI,
build evals, build guard rails, maybe
the customer service chatbot needs rag
up part of the way to get information to
feedback to the user. So I actually do
see these things grow. But one tip for
many of you as well is I will often
architect my software to make switching
between different building block
providers relatively easy. So for
example, um have a lot of products that
build on top of OM, but sometimes you
point to a specific product and ask me
which OM are we using? I honestly don't
know because we built up evals and when
there's a new model that's released,
we'll quickly run evals to see if the
new model is better than the old one.
And then you'll just switch to the new
model if the new model does better on
evals. And so the model we use week by
week, you know, sometimes our engines
will change it without even bothering to
tell me because the eval show the new
model works better. So it turns out that
switching cost for foundation models is
relatively low and we often architect
our software. Oh, AI suite is open
sourcing that my friends and I worked on
to make switching easier. Um, switching
cost for the orchestration platforms is
a little bit harder. Uh but I find that
preserving that flexibility in your
choice of building blocks often let you
go faster even as you're building more
and more things on top of each other. Um
so hope that helps.
Thank you so much.
In the world of education in AI, there
are two paradigms mostly. So one is AI
can make teachers more productive. Uh
automating grading and automating
homeworks. But another school of thought
is that there'll be personal tutors for
every student. So every student can have
one tutor that gets feedback from an AI
and gets personal questions from them.
So how do you see these two paradigms
converge and how would education look
like in the next five years?
I think everyone feels like a change is
coming in edtech but I don't think the
disruption is here yet. I think a lot of
people are experimenting with different
things. So you know Corsera has Corsera
coach which actually works really well.
Um deep learn is more focused on
teaching AI also has some built-in chat
bots. Um a lot of teams experiment of
autograding. Oh there's an avatar with
me on the deep learn website you can
talk to if you want. Uh deep learn.ai.
And then I think for some things like
language learning with you know speak
Dolingo that has become clearer some of
the ways AI would transform it for the
broader educational landscape the exact
ways that AI would transform it I see a
lot of experimentation I think what key
learning which I've been doing some work
with is doing is is very promising for
K12 education but I think uh what I'm
seeing is frankly tons of
experimentation but the final end state
is still not clear. I do think education
will be hyperpersonalized. Uh but that
workflow is an avatar, is a text
chatbot, what's the workflow? I think um
I feel like the hype from a couple years
ago that with AGI soon and it will be
all so easy. That was hype. The reality
is work is complex, right? teachers,
students, people do really complex
workflows and for the next decade we'll
be looking at the work that needs to be
done and figuring out how to map it to
agentic workflows and education is one
of the sectors where this mapping is
still underway but it's not yet mature
enough to the point where the end state
is clear. So I think I think we should
all yeah just keep working on it.
All right. All right. Thank you so much
Andrew.
Thank you. Uh hey my question is I think
AI uh it has a lot of great potential
for good but there's also a lot of
potential for bad consequences as well
such as exacerbating economic inequality
and things like that and I think a lot
of our startups here while they'll be
doing a lot of great things will also be
you know just by virtue of their product
be contributing to some of those
negative consequences. So I was curious
how do you think you know us as AI
builders should kind of balance our uh
product building with also the potential
societal downsides of some AI products
and essentially how can we uh both move
fast and be responsible as you mentioned
in your talk
look in your heart and if fundamentally
what you're building if you don't think
it'll make people at large better off
don't do it right I I know it sounds
simple but actually really hard to do in
the moment but AI fund we've killed
multiple projects projects not on
financial grounds but on ethical grounds
where there are multiple projects we
looked at the economic case is very
solid but we said you know what we don't
want this exist in the world and we just
killed it on that basis so I hope more
people will do that and then I worry
about uh bring everyone with us one
thing I'm seeing is um people in all
sorts of job roles that are not
engineering are much more productive if
they know AI than if they don't and so
for example on my marketing team my
marketers they know how the code.
Frankly, they they were running circles
around the ones that don't. So, then
everyone learned to code and then they
got better. But I feel like um trying to
bring everyone with us to make sure
everyone is empowered to build with AI.
That'll be an important part of what all
of us do, I think.
Um I'm one of your big fans and thank
you for your online courses. Your
courses make the deep learning like uh
much more accessible to the world. And
my question is also about education. uh
as AI becomes more powerful and
widespread, there seems to be a growing
gap between what can actually do and
what people perceive it. So what do you
think about like is it important to
educate the general public about deep
learning stuff and not only like uh
educate those technical people and make
people understand more what really uh
what AI really do and how it works.
I think that knowledge will diffuse deep
learn AI we want to empower everyone to
build with AI. So we're working on it.
Many of us work on it. I'll just tell
you what I think is the main d I think
there are maybe two dangers. One is if
you don't bring people with us fast
enough, I hope we'll solve that. There's
one other danger which is um it turns
out that if you look at the mobile
ecosystem, mobile phones, it's actually
not that interesting. And one of the
reasons is there are two gatekeepers,
Android and iOS. And unless they let you
do certain things, you're not allowed to
try certain things on mobile. And I
think this, you know, hampers
innovators. These dangers of AI have
been used by certain businesses. They're
trying to shut down open source because
a number of businesses that love to be a
gatekeeper to large scale foundation
models. So I think hyping up dangers,
supposed false dangers of AI in order to
get regulators to pass laws like the
proposed SP 1047 in California, which
thank goodness we shut down, would have
put in place really burdensome regry
requirements that don't make anyone
safer, but would make it really
difficult for TS to release open source
and open weight software. So one of the
dangers to inequality as well is if
these regulatory you know awful regry
approaches and I've been in the room
where some of these businesses said
stuff to regulators that was just not
true. So I think that um some of these
arguments the danger is if these
regulatory proposals succeed and end up
siphoning regulations leaving us with a
small number of gatekeepers where
everyone needs the permission of a small
number of companies to fine-tune the
model prompt in a certain way that's
what will cipher innovation and prevent
the diffusion of this information to let
lots of startups you know build whatever
they want responsibly but the freedom to
innovate so I think so long as we um
prevent this line of attack on open
source open weight models from
succeeding and we we've made good
progress but the threat is still there
then I think eventually we'll get to the
diffusion of knowledge and we can
hopefully then bring everyone with us
but this fight to protect open source
we've been winning but the fight is
still on and we still have to keep up
that work to to protect open source
thank you all very much it's wonderful
thank